This is an introduction to the command
interface.
The command line interface is a way of
working with files and folders
that involves typing a command as opposed
to pointing and clicking with a mouse.
It's incredibly useful for data science
and will be used both when you programming
in R and when you're using other tools in
the data scientist tool box.
So, what is the command line interface?
Almost every computer that's shipped today
comes
with some form of a command line
interface.
For this class, the command line
interfaces we'll be using, for Windows,
it's
Git Bash and you'll see more about that in
the "Introduction to Git".
And for Mac and Linux, it's the terminal.
[SOUND] So what can the Command Line
Interface do?
Well, you can use it to navigate between
folders.
You can use it to create files, folders,
and programs, and
then you can use it to edit those files
and folders.
Finally you can use it to run computer
programs which is one of
the main uses we'll be having for it in a
data science program.
So first we need to understand the basics
of directories.
So directory is just another name for
folder, and it's the
common name that you'll be hearing about a
lot in this class.
So being in a directory and moving to the
directory.
Directories on your computer are organized
like a tree.
So there's one directory will be inside of
another directory.
And so we can navigate between
those directories using the command line
interface.
So, here's an example, we have a music
directory and there
are three sub directories, one for each
composer here, and so you
can imagine that the Debussy directory is
inside of the music
directory and so when we think about the
structure of this directory.
We think of being either inside of a
directory or being up from a directory.
So, one directory up from the Debussy
directory is the music directory.
In general, the directory that's up from
the directory that you're
thinking of is the directory that contains
the directory you're thinking of.
[SOUND] So the directory structure on your
computer looks something like this.
You have sort of a tree structure
where each sub, each directory has sub
directories.
And so a couple of special cases that you
might want, that need to be considered.
First it's the root directory.
So this is the root directory up here at
the top of the tree.
And it's indicated at the top because it
contains all of the other directories.
And it's usually the shorthand for the new
directory is a slash.
So a slash indicates the new directory.
[SOUND] The other main directory that you
might want
to be paying attention to is your home
directory.
So that's down here.
So, the home directory is where you log in
when you log in your computer and most
of your personal stuff, your photos, your
music, your
R function will all be in your personal
directory.
And so that would be a sub directory of
the root directory again.
[SOUND] So if you want to navigate between
those directories using the
command line interface, first you have to
have a command line interface.
So, for Windows users you should open the
Start menu,
search for git bash, and then open git
bash the application.
If you're a Mac user, you open Spotlight,
search for terminal, and then open the
terminal application.
When you open the terminal or GitBash,
you'll
see something that looks a lot like this.
So this is basically application where you
mostly see blank space.
And so what will see is what's called the
prompt.
Which is your username.
Here in this case it's Sean followed by
[INAUDIBLE].
And then so when you open this up, when
you open
up the command line interface, you start
in your home directory.
An important term that we'll be using a
lot is called your working directory.
So that's whatever directory you're in at
the moment.
So when you open you're command line
interface, you're working directory is
your home directory.
If you move into a sub directory called
music, then your working directory will be
music.
[SOUND] So another thing to keep in mind
is the
path, so, people think about the path in
the directory structure.
And so we'll be moving around along the
path.
And so, suppose that you're down here,
you're down
in your home directory which is signified
by the tilde.
And so you might want to know what are the
directors that are, directories that are
up from your home directory.
So the first directory that's up is the
users directory.
And then the next directory up is the root
directory.
So you can imagine the path is the set of
directories you
have to follow in order to get back up to
the root directory.
[SOUND] So if you type PWD when you're in
the command line interface.
So here we are at that prompt.
You can see the username, the dollar sign.
Then if you type PWD and hit return, what
you'll see is the path.
So, this is the path to the working
directory that you're in right now.
So in this case, this person is in the
root directory, then users, and underneath
that they're in Sean.
So, that's the path to the working
directory that they're in.
So, PWD stands for print working
directory.
[SOUND] If you use PWD, you can use that
at any time in your directory,
it will always print the directory that
you're in, that you're looking at right
then.
So, there's always a recipe that goes with
using command line interfaces.
So what you'll do is you'll use what's
called the command.
So in the previous case it was called PWD.
Then you'll use something called flags.
These are like parameters or things that
you'll pass to
the command that tell it what kind of
behavior to take.
And then arguments can be what command is
going to modify
so what files it'll look at and things
like that.
Depending on the command, you may or may
not need to use flags or arguments.
So for example when you were using PWD, it
was a command and it didn't require any
sort of options, it didn't require any
flags
or arguments in order to change what was
happening.
[SOUND] So again, what we can use is we
can use pwd to print the current working
directory.
So, if I'm a different user then, when i
go to my
home directory and I type PWD, I'll
actually get a different path.
It's the path, users followed by Jeff
because now I'm a different user.
And so I have a different current working
directory.
Clear will clear all the commands in your
current command line interface.
So for example, suppose you typed a bunch
of commands.
In this case, we typed PWD, and we have
something here in users Jeff,
and we don't want to have that cluttering
up the space in our interface anymore.
Then what we can do is type just the
word clear, and that will clear out
everything in
the command line interface, and you'll be
left with
just a prompt at the top of the screen
again.
And a very important command is LS.
So, LS lists files and folders in the
current directory.
So, if you type LS, for example, in
direc, [INAUDIBLE] directory, you might
get all the subfolders.
So for example, you might get the desktop,
the photos, and music.
And last, dash A lists both hidden and
unhidden files.
And so for example, the desktop, photos,
and music were all unhidden, but then
there
are these files, the trash files and on a
Mac and .DS underscore store file.
Those files are start, start with a dot
and so they're hidden when you type LS.
They'll also be hidden if you look at in a
folder structure on the computer.
But LS dash A reveals those folders.
LS dash A lists some details for those
folders.
So for example it lists information about
the
size of the folders and stuff like that.
An important note is that both dash A and
dash L are flags, so
they're prec, preceded by a dash and often
a flag is preceded by a dash.
You can combine them together into one
flag by
just catnating the two letters together
after the dash.
[SOUND]
CD is another command.
It stands for change directory.
It takes as an argument the directory that
you want to go visit.
So if you're in a particular directory and
you want to move to another directory,
you can pass to CD a particular path and
it will take you to that directory.
So if you type CD with no argument at
all it'll just take you straight to your
home directory.
And then an important one is if you CD.
What that'll do is it'll change
directories up one level, so
you'll just move up one level if you do CD
dot dot.
So for example if I'm in my home directory
and I type CD Music/Debussy.
Then, I print what directory I've moved
to.
I will have moved to that, sub directory
by using the CD command.
Then if I wanted to move up just one
directory to the music folder
what I could is I could type CD dot dot,
and what that would
do is it would just move me up one
directory, and so if I
print working directory now I move down
into the, or up into the music directory.
[SOUND] If I just type CD and I don't type
anything after it like this
right here then what I end up with is just
going back to my home directory.
Mkdir or M K D I R stands for make
directory so,
it's basically just like what you'd do if
you say right click create new folder.
And so, what you need to do is you given
an argument that's the name of the
directory you're creating.
So, for example, suppose I'm here again in
my home directory, Jeff.
And I type MKDIR, space, documents.
What that will do is it will create a new
folder called documents.
So if I type LS, the list out all the
directories that I see.
One of the directories will now be
documents
that I've just created with this MKDIR
command.
So now I can actually move into that
document's directory, and then print my
current working directory
and you'll see that I'm now moved into
this new documents directory that I
created with MKDIR.
So touch creates an empty file.
So if I type, here again, touch, test
file, what that will do
is that it will actually just create a
file called test underscore file.
And so if I then list out everything
that's in my home directory,
you'll see that now one of the files
listed is test underscore file.
So if you need to create a file you use
touch.
CP stands for copy.
So suppose you want to take a file and
copy it into another file.
What you do is pass copy two arguments.
First is the file that you want to copy
and
then the place that you want it to be
copied to.
So for example if I type CP and then the
test file that I've created.
And then a directory, documents.
What it will do is it will take the test
file and it will move it into the
documents directory.
So if I copy that file there and then I
move
into the documents directory by typing, CD
documents, and I list
out list out the files, you'll see that
one of the
files that is in that directory now is the
test file.
You can then CD dot dot, and that will put
you back into your home directory.
[SOUND] So CP can, CP can also be used for
copying the contents of directories.
So suppose you want to move one directory
into another directory, you
can do that but you need to use the dash R
flag.
So the dash R is a flag that stands for
recursive.
And so if you have the line CP.
Dash R, so that's CP with a flag dash R,
documents to more documents, it will
copy the entire folder, or the entire
directory
documents into a new directory called more
documents.
So for example, what we can do here is we
can use MKDIR to create more docs.
And then what we can do is we can use
this CP dash R command to move documents
into more documents.
Then if we move in to the more docs
command using
C or directory using CD and we loop, use
the is
command to list everything in that
directory, we see that there's
a test file in that directory because it's
been copied over.
RN stands for remove.
So, RN is sort of like delete.
You basically use it to delete files that
you don't want.
So for example if we list out the files in
my
home directory, we now have all these new
files that we've created.
Suppose we want to remove this test file.
Then I just type RM space test underscore
file and it will remove that file.
So, if I list things out again you'll see
that the test file is now missing.
You can use RM to remove entire
directories
and their contents by using the dash R
flag.
So, in other words you can recursively
move all of the files in a directory.
But you should be very careful when you do
this because
there is no undo so if you delete it, it's
gone.
So be very careful when you're using RM
dash R.
So if I use in my home directory RM dash R
more docs.
It will delete the more docs directory and
all of the files that were inside it.
And so you can see, again, if I LS now
after doing that, all of the more docs has
been deleted.
MV stands for move, so with MV you can
move files between directories.
So again, suppose I crate this new file
with touch.
So I created that file.
And suppose I want to move it into
documents, then I would type MV space the
name
of the file, new underscore file, and then
the directory I wanted to move it to
documents.
And so what I would end up with if I typed
ls now is that there wouldn't be a file in
my main directory, but if I CD, I move to
the documents directory.
And I list out everything that's in there.
I end up seeing that I've moved the new
file into that directory.
[SOUND] You can also use MV to rename
files.
So if you move a file to another file with
a new name it will just change the name.
So for example here if I list the files of
the
directory I'm in then there's two files,
Test File and New File.
And I want to change the name of new file.
I can type MV, space, new underscore file.
That's the file name I was, it was
previously.
And I want to create it a renamed file.
So I'm moving, I'm changing the name of
this file to renamed file.
And then if I list out all the files that
exist now, now there's test file and
renamed file, which had the contents that
were previously in new file.
[SOUND] And so echo will print whatever
arguments you provide.
So for example, if you to echo, new, hello
world!,
like this, what it will do is just print
out hello world!
Echo is very useful for printing out
the contents of particular variables that
have
been stored that we'll talk about later.
Date will predict pre, pre, print the
date.
So if you type date like this you'll get
the date
that this actually in this case that the
slides were created.
[SOUND] So, summary of commands are PWD,
which is printing the working directory.
It's telling you what directory you're in.
Clear, which clears the screen.
LS, which lists the files in the current
working directory.
CD, which allows you to change working
directories.
MKDIR, which creates a new directory,
touch, which creates a new
file, CP, which create, copies a file, RM,
which removes a
file or directory if you use the dash R
command, or
flag sorry, and MV means moving a file or
renaming a file.
And then date and echo are ways to look
at the date or to echo out a particular
command.